Hi and welcome back.
Let's dig right into the code on using tables as data structures.
So first I just want to point out something very quickly usually we see couples written something like
this 10 20 30.
So here we have a homogeneous topic.
But remember that the parentheses is not what actually defines the table it's just the commas that do
that.
So we could write this topple as you know 10 20 30 using the parentheses but we can also just write
it this way.
And if you look at the type of a that's a topical and the type B is a tuple as well.
So the parentheses aren't required but sometimes they are.
For example let's say that we have a function that expects a tuple as an argument.
Let's say you know def print topple will pass in the top of T and then will iterate through the top.
So let's say for the empty print.
Something like that.
Now if we try and call print a couple they topple inside and we don't use parentheses.
Well the problem is that Python now thinks that these are three positional arguments.
So that's not going to work.
Instead we do have now to use the parentheses around those three values to indicate that that's a topic.
And so we get the 10:23 that works correctly.
So in certain cases you have to specify the wrong parentheses but very often like for example in code
like this you really do not.
So since tuples are actually sequences they are sequence types just like lists and just like strings
we can do all the operations on top of that we can do a regular sequence.
So for example if we have the top of that say we can access items by index right.
A zero a 1.
We can also slice them.
So if I have two or slightly longer hope let's say this this is still a typo.
OK.
We can slice it.
We can say Give me the second element up to but not including the fifth element.
So we get three four and five k we can also iterate the top all we can say 40 in a print we pay.
So we can iterate the top all and the thing is also we can unpack topples just like we can unpack the
list.
We can also unpack tables so let's say I have this table here a 10 20 we can say x y and z equals 8
with unpack the three values that are in the top of a into the variables x y and z.
So now if we print x we have a print Z we have 20 and we can also use something called extended unpacking.
We've seen that before.
Let's say I'll go back to a longer poll let's say that one and we can do something like this.
We can say X comma.
Now what I want to do is I want to grab let's say the last two elements so y and z but I don't care
about the intermediate ones.
So what am I do is actually put it into let's say another one.
OK.
So I'm going to put this into this variable called others.
And what the stud means is that Python is going to take the first element of the topple throw it into
x.
It's going to take the last element put it into Z the second last.
Put it into Y and then the remaining ones will go into other which will be a list.
So if we do that and we have to actually unpack the top if we do that we now have that X is one Y is
for z is 5 and then other is this list 2 3.
Very often when we don't care about these values here we're only trying to extract some items inside
the table then we'll actually do this we'll use an underscore instead of others to unpack and it works
the same way.
We still have X and Y and Z still 1 4 and 5 and then underscore is actually a legal variable name so
it is a variable and it contains at least two common three so it's just a convention where we use the
underscore to say hey we really don't care about these values.
We're not going to use them.
Someone reading the code.
It's you know pretty easy to understand.
OK.
You know we don't care about those intermediate values.
So we saw how we could get an element out of the top all by using an index.
For example if we use our current table here a we can recover the first element using an index.
But tables are immutable.
So you cannot do something like that if you can't assign a value to it.
Right the table object doesn't support assignment it's immutable.
But we have to be careful just because a table is immutable doesn't mean that the data inside the table
cannot change if the table is immutable.
It just means that we cannot change the reference.
Right.
The memory address of the individual elements in the table.
And then we can't add or remove elements from the top.
But if the arm object inside the top is mutable we can certainly mutate that object.
Let's do a simple example to show that let's create a class point to D and it can be very simple class.
We're going to do in that we're just going to represent a two dimensional point where self-taught X
equals x self-taught y equals Y camp.
And then the only other thing that I want to put in here is the wrapper under the method because I want
to be able to print out a point and I want it to have a nice representation.
So if we're going to return I'm going to use the new strings in Python.
So I want to return the name of the class first.
So we'll grab the class of this instance then the name of that class k.
Then we're going to put parentheses and in parentheses we'll put X equals and comma y equals and then
what are we going to put in here we're going to put self-corrects.
And here we are going to put self-taught y.
Kirk.
So this is our class.
Very simple so we can create a point P-T that's a cost point to d i can convert 20 k.
And the point now is 10 comr 20 but we can also now go and say point dot X equals 100.
So now look at the point we can see that we mutated that point T.
Now the x values changed the memory address would have been the same.
Let me go ahead and rerun this.
Let me just show you that the ID of point is that now we mutated right.
And if we look at the idea of point again we can see that it's the same then the object's memory address
has changed.
So now imagine that you have a total a holes point to the 0 0 and point to the 10 20 that say this to
do a table with two values in it.
Then we have this.
Now the idea of the first element is this value here.
We can never change that.
We can never change what the first element of a points to.
However we can certainly change the object that add that memory address because it is mutable.
So we can do this.
Well we can return the value but we can also set it.
OK.
Because we're not changing the top or we're changing something that's inside the top.
So now if we look at it we can see that the elements actually did mutate.
So just be careful with topples just because you have a topple doesn't mean that you have something
that cannot change.
The table is immutable.
But you know what it contains may be mutable.
Now something is very similar to strings right.
If you take a string that say we have Python and we've cut the string get s and sometimes we'll say
well as equals Python plus trucks.
And we now see that as this python Rux we did not mutate the string s.
Strings are immutable what happened.
Let me go ahead and rerun this.
So we have Ezekial Python.
We can look at the idea of X and we have some ID.
Now we extend the string quote unquote.
And if we look at the idea of s now we can see that it's changed.
What happens is that this actually generates a new string.
So it looks to us like we're extending the strain by currently doing this concatenation.
But we're not we're just creating a new string.
And the same thing happens with topples.
You can have a couple 10 to one comment to come in three right and we can say equal one comma to come
at three.
Well that's type the idea.
While we're at it.
OK.
So has this ivy.
And let's say aik plus equals one comma to a list.
Sorry for comma 5 came and now we can see that A is 1 2 3 4 5.
And so we may be thinking oh we changed.
You know what A was again.
We did all we did was create a new topic.
Essentially what this line did.
And if we check the idea of a by the way you can see it's changed what this line did.
It just said eight is equal to a plus for comma 5.
And so it took to topple a concatenated these two values.
So it formed a new top hole and then assigned it back into a.
And that's how that works.
So again tables are immutable.
So there people just data records.
We really ought to think of toppled as data records as data structures.
For example we had this class over here that we created for a point and it was kind of complicated code
and really all we want is to be able to hold the x and y coordinates.
A much simpler way is just to use a couple of raúl bear Toppo.
And we just by convention will agree that the first item of the table is the x coordinate and the second
one is the y coordinate.
So we can create a point simply saying zero from zero and point two equals 10 20 k.
Now we have basically two points two x y coordinates and it's just the convention of the meaning that
we've given to the position in the top.
And of course because tuples are immutable we know that you know this value 10 is always going to stay
in the first position and 20 is always going to stay in the second position.
Furthermore these are integers they're also immutable.
So in fact P-T one and two are completely immutable we can't change them at all because the table is
immutable and the objects that it contains are also immutable.
So this is a pretty simple example but we can go beyond that.
We could for example create a city topple and we just go with the convention.
This is what we're going to use in our code that the first element of the city is going to be the city
name.
The second element is going to be the country in the third elements going to be the population.
So again it's just a convention that we agree on when we write on our program and different programs
may have different conventions.
So let's go ahead and see some examples of that.
Let's go ahead and create London.
So the city name is London.
The country is U.K. and the population is 8 million 780000 about.
OK.
Then we'll do in New York.
I'm looking at my notes here because I don't remember the populations offhand.
So New York that's in the U.S. and the population is eight million.
Five hundred thousand.
And then we have Beijing which is in China.
And it has 21 million population.
So now we have these three temples and they're just ordinary couples but we know that the first element
is the city.
The second element is the country and the thought of the population.
So now we can put them together into a list.
For example we can say cities is London New York and Beijing.
So one thing I want to point out here you'll notice that these temples are heterogeneous.
They have different data types in them.
The first two are a strange glass one is an integer.
Here however my cities list is homogeneous.
It has three top walls that have the same structure.
And very often you'll find that lists unlike topples or homogeneous because we want to be able to do
the same thing over and over again to a list of elements in the top all Hiva we're using that as a data
structure.
We don't require that.
So here's what I mean by that.
Let's say we want to find the total population in this list of cities Well we know that every item in
this list is the same.
It's a city Toppo.
And so we know therefore that the third element at index 2 is going to be the population.
So we could do something like this.
Total equals zero.
We could then loop through the list.
It's an edible.
So we can say for city in cities and then we're just going to say total plus equals City 2.
And then we'll print the total.
OK that's one way of doing it.
And so we get our total over here probably 38 million 280000.
Now the reason why this walk is because every item in this list was a city topple.
If we had thrown an integer into this list if we had done this for example then we're going to get an
era because this isn't over here.
Well you can't say in square brackets too.
Right.
So that's not going to work.
And that's why lists are typically homogeneous.
That can be heterogeneous.
There's nothing wrong with that.
But typically the homogeneous topples on the other hand because they are used as data structures are
typically heterogeneous.
Now let me show you a better way a more pythonic way of doing this.
This is certainly correct in terms of code it will work just fine the compiler won't have a problem
executing that and giving us the correct answer.
But let's see how we might approach this.
You know we have slightly better code.
So the first thing I want to do is I want to use a list comprehension because what am I interested in.
I've got this list of top rules.
I really just want the list of all the populations.
So let's go ahead and create a new list and we're going to use a list comprehension.
So first we're going to iterate for city in cities.
That's what we want and we want to extract what we want and extract city too.
So if we do this you'll see we actually get a list back right.
That's a list comprehension.
So now what do I want to do.
I just want to find some of that and I get the song so much cleaner way of doing it.
And in fact we don't even need the square brackets.
We'll get into that in a later section when we cover our comprehension that will also cover generators
or we get the same result.
So you know this is how you can write this total or you can do it.
Where was it this way.
Right.
Which way do you think is cleaner.
And this is also very much easier to understand.
I'm looking at the some of the third element in the city that's in the cities list.
While that's pretty straightforward to understand what's going on here you'd have to read a little bit
more code to figure out.
So this is really more expressive than this over here.
So we talk about unpacking as well.
So let's look at another example.
I'm going to paste that in from my notes that's available in the notebook and we can unpack this now
this by convention is the symbol year month day.
Open High Low close so we can unpack it this way we can say symbol long day open high low and close
equals record.
I'm actually going to use an open underscore because open is also a function the built in function to
open files.
And what do I have MS.
I got something wrong somewhere.
Low coming close.
There we go.
OK.
So now I've got this all unpacks I've got the symbol is that my clothes is that.
But let's say I'm only interested in the first and last element then that's very simple.
I can say symbols.
I can unpack everything else in between which I can you know put into an ignored variable but because
I'm going to use the python convention of the underscore I'm right that's what people typically use
all stick to that.
And then I'll take the close equals rafted so I can do that.
And now I've got my symbol and my clothes extracted from the top or if I can type.
So we've got the Dow Jones Industrial.
Twenty six thousand seventy two.
But again the underscore is just a regular variable and you can see it took everything else 20:18 up
to 25 9:4 to and return that for us in a list.
Now we've seen how to unpack topples.
What's interesting is that you can actually unpack a top all in the loop when you're doing a for loop
you get a table back.
Let's say if you're enumerating a table you can actually unpack that toppled directly in the fall.
So what I mean by this let's take a look at port city.
In cities they will go back to our city.
This just print the city out but we get back.
Right.
What's inside this variable.
Every time the loop runs well it's just a topple.
So what we can do here we can unpack it into into separate variables right away so we can say our city
comma country comma population.
And now we're going to have these three values available inside our local duration.
So this is pretty handy.
And by the way that's how the numerate function works.
The numerator function in Python allows us to basically enumerate and iterable.
So for example a list or a top or anything like that.
But it will return a top or containing the values that were in that iterable and the index.
And it uses a table as a data structure to return that where the first element of the table is the index.
The second element is the value.
So for example let me show you what I make that say for item in enumerate cities
and the next print.
Now the item.
Let's see what we have in the item and you can see each item is a tadpole.
The first element of the top all by you know is the index.
So this is a data structure and then the second element is the thing we were trying to iterate cities
in this case.
So now we can actually go ahead and unpack this.
We could say our index comma's city and now we can print out the index and the city right.
We have that available and if I type correctly it might work.
We have that available right.
We printed the index and then we printed the city.
Now another way that we use tables is data structures most often is when we return data from functions
if we want to return multiple values from a function we'll put them into a table that's a data structure
because the position of the value in that table has meaning.
For example let's do something kind of silly let's calculate an approximate value for pi where we're
going to do is we're going to generate a function that's going to take the radius of the circle and
it's going to basically figure out it's going to do some random points inside a box a square that encapsulates
that circle and it's going to generate random coordinates within that square.
And then it's going to test whether that coordinate is inside the circle or not.
And then we'll keep track of that and then we'll look at the ratio and that should give us an approximate
value for pi.
So let's go ahead and do that.
So from random import uniform and then from math import square root.
Okay.
And then we're going to create a function let's call it a random shot.
We're going to shoot down randomly at this square box that contains a circle of this radius.
So we're going to go ahead and say random x equals I'm going to use uniform just so I can use this technique
where I can generate random numbers between negative radius and radius.
So think of the circle centered at the origin and then we have a square around it.
So that square has silence of two.
Right because the circle is at the origin and the square is just the same size as is just big enough
to basically encapsulate the circle.
So then we'll do random y close uniform.
Same thing minus radius radius cake.
And what do we want this function to do.
Well we wanted to calculate to see is this coordinate inside a circle that would be centered at 0 0
of radius radius and then we want to return the those two x and y coordinates.
And whether it's a sort whether it's inside the circle or not.
So let's go ahead and do the calculation.
So we're going to say if square root of random x square and plus random y square and so if that square
root is less than or equal to the radius then it isn't in so-called people's true health is in.
So call equals false.
Now I could have used you know a TONRY operator here but I prefer this syntax it's a little easier to
understand especially that since I have this kind of long expression here.
OK so now what do we want to do.
We just want to return random acts random.
And is in Soffer.
OK.
We don't know the person using this function.
Are they going to want to know what the code in it was as well.
So instead of just returning with it's in the circle or not I'm going to return the co-ordinate and
whether it wasn't whether it was in the circle or not.
So there's a function.
And now let's go ahead and actually run this and use that function.
So let's say a number of attempts equals 100 let's just keep it simple for now and then count inside
that's going to be counting the number of coordinates that were inside the circle.
So I'm just going to run this random shot a hundred times or number 10 times and then I'm going to look
at the ratio of how many dots ended up inside the circle versus how many did not.
And that will give me the ratio of the circles area to the area of the box.
And we know the area of the box is for.
So we just have to multiply by four whatever of your ratio is.
And we'll get an approximate value for pi because the surface area of a circle of radius 1 is pi.
So we'll use.
By the way a radius of 1.
OK.
So we just want to repeat this you know 100 times for I in range and we'll do Namah attempts.
We're not hard coding values.
Now what I'm going to do is I'm going to call random shots a so a radius of one.
I'm not actually interested in this case in the coordinates so I'm going to use this extended unpacking
to grab the first two and put them into the underscore variable and then I'm going to have the is in
Sokal.
OK.
So basically I'm unpacking what gets returned from random shot
and if is the saw code then we'll say counts inside plus equals 1.
OK so we're just counting the number that were inside.
There's other ways you can write this and we could
but let's keep it simple.
Supply is approximately.
So now we have to do is two.
And I'm using an F string so the F comes before the string.
OK.
So what do we want to do we want to do four times count inside.
Divided by none.
Attempts to and what did I do wrong here.
I either close off my string.
Ok so pi is approximately 3.2 OK.
So this is just to show you where we often use toppled as return values of functions we want to return
more than one thing.
But what happens is that we need to know as you know a color of random shot what the different positions
mean in these return values.
Now of course we can make this a little bigger.
Let's make it let's do this a million times and let's see if we get a slightly better approximation
to pi.
And once it finishes running there we go 3.1 for a little closer to pi.
All right.
So that's how we can use all these data structures.
Thanks for watching and I'll see you in the next video.